The three documents in this folder detail use cases of decentralized technologies for civil society organizations. A use case is a tool-centric explanation of how a nonprofit could use a Dweb platform or tool to get a job done. From nonprofit operations tasks like fundraising and impact reporting to field work such as remote community mapping and private browsing, there are many decentralized tools available to support these various jobs with potentially valuable advantages including increased transparency, privacy, or collective input.

We’ve organized our initial 16 use cases into three separate “bundles” or categories of tasks. The first bundle is for use cases that have to do with financial transactions; the second bundle is for non-financial data verification and securitization; and the third bundle is for jobs that have to do with local community networks.

It is important to note that many of these use cases and the example tools are still in their early stages of development and iteration. They show promising traction for supporting civil society organizations, but might not have the many years of use that would be necessary for significant, indisputable results and proof of their benefit. Our goal with the Accelerating Makers program is to create the conditions for collaborations between DWeb tool Makers and civil society integrators needed to harness these emerging technologies for the public good.

If you are interested in trying out a DWeb tool for your nonprofit, we highly recommend doing some extra research and perhaps contacting the tool Makers to gain a deeper understanding of the landscape and state of the project to learn if/how the tool can support your unique needs. Feel free to reach out to our team (makerlabs@techsoup.org) and we can connect you with DWeb experts who might be able to answer your questions or point you in the right direction.

Let us know what you think of these use case bundles! We are open to your feedback and suggestions throughout this program. 
