TechSoup, in collaboration with the [Filecoin Foundation for the Decentralized Web](https://ffdweb.org/) (FFDW), proposes to catalyze partnerships between DWeb leaders and Galleries, Libraries, Archives, and Museums (GLAM) institutions. By co-creating groundbreaking "Memory Projects" that leverage decentralized technologies, we will empower GLAM Makers and institutions to preserve and share underrepresented histories, challenge dominant narratives, and promote a more inclusive understanding of our collective past.

The histories of marginalized communities are at risk of being lost or overlooked due to limited resources, technological barriers, and the limitations of centralized preservation methods. GLAM institutions face significant challenges in preserving and sharing these diverse histories, thus perpetuating social inequalities and hindering our understanding of the past.

By working closely with a targeted network of DWeb makers, GLAM innovators, and dynamic leaders, such as those from Grayarea.org, we will support the adoption of decentralized technologies like Filecoin and IPFS. The unique combination of technical expertise, creative vision, historical resources, and DWeb technology will create an environment where GLAM Makers are empowered to democratize local histories,ensure long-term accessibility, and create a more inclusive, resilient, and engaging civil society.

We will empower GLAM Makers and institutions to preserve and share underrepresented histories, challenge dominant narratives, and promote a more inclusive understanding of our collective past. The resulting Memory Projects will serve as powerful proof points, aiming to inspire further adoption, demonstrating the impact of decentralized technologies in the cultural heritage sector.
